# Final Project

The dataset we will be working with is the Internet Game Database. A company by the name of “8 Dudes in a Garage” developed this dataset. The database has an api that allows subscribers to access all the data stored in their database. We found the database through rapidapi.com. This database serves to gather relevant information regarding video games, store it in a single place, and people to utilize their API to build websites and other features using the data. Our target audience is primarily people that love video games. They are going to be people that want to discover new games, learn interesting things about current games (who developed it, voice characters, release date, popularity, genre, etc.).  They are also going to be people that are looking to find the most reliable source when researching video games. Overall, the audience will be looking for a resource that best fits their gaming needs. Our project aims to answer such questions as the who, what, when, and where for video games. For example, a user would want to know who made the game, when they made it, how popular it is, what genre it is classified under, what platform it’s available on, etc. Additionally, we aim to answer the question of given a specific data point (i.e. manufacturer, genre) what is the most popular game. Also, we expect to answer questions surrounding news when given input of some data point (game, genre, etc.). Ultimately, our goal is to answer the question of how to get the most reliable information surrounding video games. 

## Technical Description
For our project we will be designing an interactive Shiny app. The dataset we are utilizing will be accessed using an API. Upon analyzing the given API and its underlying database, it seems fairly organizing which should provide little stress in regards to data wrangling. Although this may be true we expect there to be additional transformations in regards to formatting the data so that our visualizations represent the information we want to show the user. Such reforming would revolve around combining/comparing data points such as manufacturers, popularity, and other information regarding video games. As far as new libraries, it’s hard to determine such until we actually begin formulating functions to create our application but at the very least we anticipate needing libraries that enable us to perform tasks that simplify data wrangling and displaying information. We intend at the very least to use ggplot2, tidyverse, readr, shiny, and httr. We intend to answer questions with statistical analysis that revolve around finding the best games based on some user input. Beyond that, we may do statistical analysis to ensure the application is better suited for the user but we are unsure at this time. In regards to challenges, we anticipate building the shiny app will give us some issues being that it will be our first time working with shiny. Additionally, the API could give us some trouble when trying to wrangle the data if the tables we generate are formatted in such a way that makes them hard to work with. Overall, the issues we face will primarily relate to our inexperience with this technology but should be manageable. 

## Our Application
Here is a [link](https://bfranzen.shinyapps.io/videogamedb/) that takes you to our finished application